README.md, before:

# A Containerized React and Django Rest Framework Deployment

## Overview


## How to Use This
As you can see there are three folders in this repo:
- `/backend` has your DRF application, along with its corresponding Dockerfile.
- `/frontend` has your React application.
- `/webserver` has a configuration file for your nginx server and the Dockerfile that builds your React code and configures the server.

The rest of the files at the project's root are for putting everything together.  The centerpiece is the [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/) file (in both a development and production version).

Our application has three "services" in docker-compose lingo.  A service is basically a container.  I've somewhat arbitrarily called the DRF container "api", and the React/nginx one "nginx".  The `build` key (and its sub-keys) just tell docker-compose where the Dockerfile is.  So in the case of `docker-compose.dev.yml`, the Dockerfile for "api" is in the `/backend` folder.  It's smart enough to find the Dockerfile in there.  Everything else is optional configuration.  docker-compose uses that configuration to run your image.

```yaml
  api:
    build: ./backend
    ports:
      - "8000:8000"
    environment:
      - SECRET_KEY=$SECRET_KEY
      - DEBUG=$DEBUG
      - DB_NAME=$POSTGRES_DB
      - DB_USER=$POSTGRES_USER
      - DB_PASS=$POSTGRES_PASSWORD
```
is the same as

```bash
docker run -p 8000:8000 -e SECRET_KEY=$SECRET_KEY -e DEBUG=$DEBUG -e DB_NAME=$POSTGRES_DB -e DB_USER=$POSTGRES_USER -e DB_PASS=$POSTGRES_PASSWORD ./backend
```

The `docker-compose.prod.yml` is almost identical, except that it uses pre-built images stored in a Dockerhub account (so that we don't have to copy over all the source code into the EC2 instance).

The other `.sh` scripts are conveniences for running the docker-compose files.
NOTE: You might have to change the file permissions to run the scripts `chmod 755 myscript.sh`.

`run-compose-dev.sh` sets some environment variables used in the docker-compose file, then calls `docker-compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up`.  "up" starts everything (this might take a while).  And when you're done, you just run `docker-compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml down` (not part of a script, but you can add your own, or maybe a [Makefile](https://medium.com/freestoneinfotech/simplifying-docker-compose-operations-using-makefile-26d451456d63) if you really want to go all out).

Lastly, `build-and-push-images.sh` (which takes two arguments: your EC2 IP address, and the current version of your application, i.e. 1.2) is for pushing up your images to Dockerhub so they can be accessed for the production deployment.  Be sure to set the `DOCKERHUB_UNAME` variable to your own Dockerhub account. Versioning your containers enables you to keep track of what you have deployed at any given time.


# Development
The main difference between the `docker-compose.dev.yml` and `docker-compose.prod.yml` files is that the dev version uses local Dockerfiles to build everything, whereas the prod version uses images that have been pushed to your Dockerhub account (and versioned).

## Production

Create an EC2 instance.

Ensure that you've run `build-and-push-images.sh <MY_EC2_IP_ADDR> <VERSION>`

You'll need to install docker and docker-compose.  The `setup-ec2.sh` script takes care of that.  Before you can run it, you'll have to copy it over, replacing your .pem file and IP address as necessary:
```bash
scp  -i "vanillaApp.pem" ./setup-ec2.sh ./run-compose-prod.sh ./docker-compose.prod.yml   ec2-user@ec2-18-234-99-58.compute-1.amazonaws.com:/home/ec2-user
```

Now you can run the Docker installation script: `./setup-ec2.sh`, and then the `run-compose-prod.sh` script with appropriate arguments.

Commit message:

Docker Lesson 2: Django
This commit removes everything except postgres
stuff and django stuff for a dev environment.

This is to use it for Docker Lesson 2, which
focuses on dockerizing Django and using it with
a postgres container.

README.md, after:

# A Containerized React and Django Rest Framework Deployment

## Overview

- The shell scripts create environment variables, execute docker compose, and run any install/setup commands.
- The docker compose files are executed by the shell scripts and use the env vars when creating images or starting containers.

## How to Use This

As you can see there are the following folders in this repo:

- `/backend` has your Django application, along with its corresponding Dockerfile.

The rest of the files at the project's root are for putting everything together.  The centerpiece is the [docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/gettingstarted/) file. 

Our application has two "services" in docker-compose lingo.  A service is basically a container.

- **"api":** Service for the Django container.
- **"db":** Service for Postgres container.

> You can name a service anything you want.

The `build` key (and its sub-keys) just tell docker-compose where the Dockerfile is.  For "api" it is in the `/backend` folder.  It's smart enough to find the Dockerfile in there.  Everything else is optional configuration.  docker-compose uses that configuration to run your image.

```yaml
  api:
    build: ./backend
    ports:
      - "8000:8000"
    environment:
      - SECRET_KEY=$SECRET_KEY
      - DEBUG=$DEBUG
      - DB_NAME=$POSTGRES_DB
      - DB_USER=$POSTGRES_USER
      - DB_PASS=$POSTGRES_PASSWORD
```

is the same as

```bash
docker run -p 8000:8000 -e SECRET_KEY=$SECRET_KEY -e DEBUG=$DEBUG -e DB_NAME=$POSTGRES_DB -e DB_USER=$POSTGRES_USER -e DB_PASS=$POSTGRES_PASSWORD ./backend
```

The `docker-compose.prod.yml` is almost identical, except that it uses pre-built images stored in a Dockerhub account (so that we don't have to copy over all the source code into the EC2 instance).

The other `.sh` scripts are conveniences for running the docker-compose file.

> NOTE: You might have to change the file permissions to run the scripts `chmod 755 myscript.sh`.

`run-compose-dev.sh` sets some environment variables used in the docker-compose file, then calls `docker-compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up`.  "up" starts everything (this might take a while).  

When you're done, just run `./stop-compose-dev.sh`. All it does is:

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml down
```
